It was drawing towards the close of the year 1856 (there may be some
among my readers who can recollect what a dull, foggy, cheerless ending
that year had), when one morning the post to Marshlands brought with it
an Indian letter for Captain Stondon.

The post often brought Indian letters there—long letters (for though the
writer addressed his epistles to Captain Stondon, he knew they would be
read by Phemie), full of descriptions of the country, of his
occupations, of his prospects, of his hopes.

Nearly three years had elapsed since Basil’s departure, but time made no
difference in the regularity of his correspondence. Let him be busy or
the reverse, the young man still found leisure to despatch his budget of
news. Perhaps he felt that on those letters Phemie lived; that her
existence was only rendered supportable by the excitement of waiting for
his missives, and hearing them read aloud; that she loved the sight of
his handwriting as she had once loved the sight of himself; that she
counted up the days as they came and went—counted how long it was since
the arrival of his last letter, how long it would be before the advent
of his next. The time had passed with her somehow; she was no longer the
girl Phemie; she had changed from the young wife, from the beautiful
gracious hostess, to a quiet, undemonstrative woman, who tried with all
her heart and all her soul to do her duty.

It had come to that—for lack of explanation—even because of her
husband’s excessive tenderness and consideration, she found she could
only give him duty, never love. Her lover was gone from her—she had
driven him away! Her lover, who had not married Miss Derno after all,
who had loved her, her only—Phemie Stondon, who now sat with her hands
folded, and her untasted breakfast before her, waiting for the news
which Captain Stondon appeared unusually loth to communicate.

When he went away she vowed she would never ask a question concerning
him, and so far she never had; but now she saw something in her
husband’s face which impelled her to say—